We have heard from many of you how much you have really appreciated JW News as a source
of accurate information.
In contrast with much of the misinformation posted on the internet and social media, Jehovah's
people serve as a pillar in support of the truth, as 1 Timothy 315 says.
But just what does it take to prepare a newsroom report?
Well, under the direction of the coordinators committee of the governing body, the office
of public information or OPI prepares articles for the JW Newsroom.
Now they work closely with public information desk or PIDs in our branch offices.
In the following report, some of these brothers share a behind-the-scenes look at how articles
in the last few years have been written and published on JW News.
From the late 1960s to the late 1990s, Italian brothers were condemned and imprisoned for
refusing military service.
A recent survey revealed that more than 14,000 brothers from that group are still alive.
They were sentenced to a total of almost 10,000 years in prison.
We thought that their experiences could make a potential story for the newsroom section
of JW Doorg, along with comments from secular sources.
So we promptly notified OPI.
When we received that proposal, we agreed with their assessment.
That's when we go into action.
We'll talk about the angle back and forth with PID until we have something that we know
will work not only for Italy, but for our worldwide audience on JW Doorg.
Then we interviewed some brothers who had been imprisoned the longest.
They had to face many challenges, but they also recalled how their loyalty was a great
witness, especially for some prison guards who eventually became JW's witnesses as well.
This additional information was confirmed and then added to the story.
Then we sent the draft to OPI.
Once the initial article is written by the branch, there's still quite a bit of work that
has to be done.
We'll edit the article, select the photos, write the captions, send it through proofreading,
and then lastly, the article then is sent back to the coordinators committee for their
final review and approval.
Shortly after the article was posted on JW Doorg, and the Italy PID informed their local
reporters, over 50 media outlets in Italy covered this story and wrote articles about
this topic.
What our hope was that by publicizing this information, it would not only be encouraging
to our brothers and sisters, but it would have a positive impact on fair-minded officials
in other countries where our brothers are still dealing with this issue of neutrality.
2019 was the 25th anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda.
So because of that, there was greater interest in the scholarly community in particular about
what happened during the genocide.
One of the things that OPI was responsible for doing is to collect experiences of people
who were our brothers and sisters who saw the violence and who survived and helped others
to survive sometimes at the risk of their own lives.
Our office assisted OPI in preparing the article in two ways.
First of all, ensuring that the release was accurate, secondly, to ensure that the article
gave consideration to the perspective of those who went through genocide.
Many of the brothers have been able to read that story in JW News and it encouraged them
when they see the courage and the fate that our brothers displayed in Rwanda.
OPI has the privilege of assisting the brothers in Russia.
We prepare news items on JW News.
Once the trial begins, the team works together to prepare a JW News item.
We have to do lots of research on the brother or the sister's personal case history, where
they raided, where they put in pretrial detention.
We can introduce the brother, the sister to the brotherhood, and then they can pray for them.
Once we've put together the material, we send it to the public information desk.
And on the day of the verdict, we post a breaking news to immediately alert the brotherhood.
How can you make the best use of JW News?
Look for opportunities to share news items with your Bible students and others.
Many of these reports show how Jehovah's people demonstrate love for one another.
Another way is by praying for our brothers and sisters that we read about in the newsroom.
We hope you continue to use the newsroom to stay informed, to be encouraged, and to remain
united with God's organization a pillar and support of the truth.